Hi, I'm Nic and today we're
going to be showing you how to
resolve WCAG name role value
violations on Android devices.
So WCAG 4.1.2
defines the name role value
violations. And it states that
for all user interface
components, the name and role
must be able to be determined
programmatically, and the states
properties and values of these
objects must be able to be set
programmatically. The intent of
the success criterion is to be
sure that assistive technologies
such as screen readers can
gather information, set
information and keep up to date
with the current state of the
users interface. For more
details on the specifics of
WCAG name role value
violations, check out this link
here, Link also in the
description below. Let's go
ahead and fix the name role
value violation with the help of
the mesmer JetBrains plugin. But
first, don't forget to like and
subscribe to the YouTube
algorithm. So here we have two
name role value violations
brought up by the mesmer
assistant, we can click on the
resource ID to find the Java
kotlin files and XML file is
responsible for these
violations. So we'll go ahead
and open up these files. And
there we go. So here we have the
XML file. So let's now that we
know its screen the violations
are on, let's go ahead and bring
up our emulator and see if we
can identify the violation for
ourselves and see what's going
on. So here we have the emulator
of the screen. Let's go and see
what our screen reader is able
to see. So we can figure out
what's going on with the
violation.
I agree to the mesmer Terms of
Service and privacy policy,
double tap to activate double
tap and hold to long press.
OK, so it's not giving me any
feedback when I double tap, it's
not
checked checkbox. Double tap to
toggle.
Notice the screen reader is
unable to associate the checkbox
with its description. Let's go
ahead and fix that. So from
within here, we can see that
there are two separate objects
from the check box and TextView.
And in the kotlin file, it looks
like we are just binding the
click to associate the text box
with that check view. That's why
we're able to click here on this
and still get the checkbox
checked. So we'll go ahead and
take care of that. Easiest way
to do this is going to be
associate both of these with a
single object. So we're going to
want to copy over the text from
the TextView and put it in the
checkbox. We no longer need the
TextView because we're going to
program this with a single
object, we're going to need to
make sure and set the width for
this new object. Okay, looking
good. And here. Alright, now
what do we need to modify for
the kotlin we no longer need
this finding because we're
combining into a single object.
It looks like here's where we're
getting our HTML. Let's go and
set that checkbox alone. And
then go ahead and rerun this
application and see what it
looks like now. Awesome, let's
check out how this function is
not checked. I agree to the
mesmer Terms of Service and
privacy policy checkbox.
Awesome. So now it looks like
the checkbox and description are
associated. We can tell this by
double click on the description
and hearing the feedback we get
from the assistive technology
checked. I agree to the mesmer
Terms of Service and privacy
policy checkbox. And just like
that, we've resolved our name
role value accessibility
violation.
Which accessibility violation do
you think is the most difficult
to resolve? Let us know in the
comment section down below.
Happy developing